{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2820
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13620\viewh10400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 737 Bridge St\
- It\'92s not clear from the plan which trees are to be removed; two 24\'94 trees are shown.\
- No planting plan is given, it\'92s not clear where or whether the replacement inches are to be planted or paid.\
\
596 Ryan Rd\
\
This application is full of inconsistencies. \
- The table of trees to be removed totals to 344\'94, not 314\'94. if the non-significant trees are removed, it is 302\'94.\
- The trees in the arborist report don\'92t match up with the trees to be removed. Not all trees to be removed seem to appear in the arborist report (#2 & #3) and the DBH reported by the arborist is different from the DBH on the plan in many instances.\
- The DBH Inches Removed in the Planning Department table does not correspond to anything in the plans or the arborist report. It\'92s not clear where that number comes from.\
\
278 Burts Pit Rd\
\
- What was the final mitigation?\
- This address appears twice in the list\'85\
\
107 Williams St\
- Plan shows 19.5 replacement inches, not 28 as in CM document. This is consistent with the other numbers. Corrected.\
\
67 Park St\
- Several inconsistencies \
- Plan stipulates 146\'94 removed, not 103\'94 as in CM document. This matches the replacement and payment inches. Changed.\
- Arborist report shows 14 significant trees with total 379\'94 DBH, all with probable or imminent potential for failure, all recommended for removal. 232\'94 probable failure, 147\'94 imminent failure. Not clear how many of these were removed.\
- Decision requires 103\'94 of replacement trees, indicating 206\'94 to be removed.\
\
332 Turkey Hill Rd\
- Could not find plans, unable to verify.\
\
39 Day St\
\
- Plans say 64\'94 to be replaced of which they will plant 50\'94 and fund 14\'94 plus 19.5\'94 public shade trees?\
- They seem to be replacing / mitigating at 1:1, not 1:2.\
\
80 Locust St\
- Plan calls for 54\'94 of replacement trees or mitigation, not 60\'94. Not clear whether they were planted or paid.\
\
808 Ryan Rd\
- Looks good\
\
79 King St\
- Plans show 24\'94 removed; PB decision says 40\'94\
\
53 Main St, Florence\
\
- Documents show 15\'94 planted, 47\'94 mitigation fee for $12,960 (?)\
\
Village Hill\
\
- Plans are available by searching the registry for Pecoy\
- This is for three houses on Ford Crossing and Higgins Way\
- Plan shows 44 trees, approximately 126\'94\
- Plans are filed as 31C-055\
\
Round Hill\
\
- Filed as 31B-004 Historic Round Hill Summit, LLC & 1924, LLC_2016\
- Tree removal inventory shows 358\'94 removed\
- Planting plan shows 30 trees, 65\'94\
\
Landfill\
\
- Guessing 2\'94 replacement trees\
\
Bridge St/Pomeroy Terrace\
\
- Plan shows 18 replacement trees for 45\'94. Were these actually planted, or only 6 as per CM.\
\
121 Hinckley\
\
- I think these both refer to the same property. It was subdivided in 2016 and more trees were removed in 2020.\
- The original planting plan shows more than 14 trees - were they planted+\
- Guessing from the mitigation fee that 18\'94 were planted\
\
155 Pleasant\
\
- 34\'94 for mitigation is only part of the total trees planted\
\
21 Olander Dr\
\
- Planting schedule shows 65 trees; guessing 35 @ 3\'94 and 30 @ 2\'94 for 165\'94\
}