{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16180\viewh14800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf0 My name is Kent Johnson, I live at 1 Aldrich Street. I have many years experience as a data analyst and I have worked extensively with public data.\
\
 I\'92m here to speak for the trees.\
\
Data from the National Land Coverage Database shows that Northampton has about 57 percent tree canopy coverage overall. Coverage varies widely by ward, from 75 percent in Ward 6A to 16 percent in Ward 3A. Ward 3B, where this project is located, is near the bottom with 24 percent coverage in 2021. Tree canopy in Ward 3B is declining - from 2011 to 2021, Ward 3B lost 6 acres of trees. \
\
The development proposed for 8 View Ave would remove 27 significant trees, with diameters from 20 inches to 47 inches, and untold numbers of non-significant trees with diameter less than 20 inches. Based on my analysis, this would lead to an overall loss of more than one acre of tree canopy. For reference, this is twice the size of the nearby, recently-cleared Eversource lot, and a notable loss of tree canopy.\
\
Of the 713 caliper inches of significant trees to be removed, only 171 inches - one quarter - would be replaced on site. All of the replacement trees would be 2-3 inches in diameter. 35 of the replacement trees, 40% of the replacement caliper inches, are specified as low-growing under-wire trees such as serviceberry, hornbeam and dogwood - that will never reach the size of the trees removed. The larger trees would take decades to approach the size of the trees they are replacing, if they are lucky enough to last that long. \
\
The existing trees have important benefits for temperature and rainfall mitigation, and carbon dioxide storage.\
\
Ward 3B is one of the hottest wards in the city. It includes the east side of King Street, lined with parking lots and few trees, and neighborhoods with limited tree canopy. At noon on July 2, 2024, when temperatures were soaring all over the city, Landsat data shows that the average surface temperature in Ward 3B was over 100 degrees. Some parts of King Street reached as high as 110 degrees. In contrast, the temperature in the woods that this project would impact was in the mid-80s. \
\
i-Tree analysis shows that the 27 significant trees on this site intercept 50,588 gallons of rainfall and help avoid 2,019 gallons of stormwater runoff per year. They reduce atmospheric carbon dioxide by 4,324 pounds per year, adding to the nearly 130 tons of carbon they have already stored.\
\
The trees on this site cannot be replaced. They provide valuable, measurable benefits to the community. They are among the few remaining woodlands in the downtown area. They should be preserved and protected, not cut down.\
\
Thank you.}