{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12580\viewh9620\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Northampton has about 57% tree canopy coverage overall. Coverage varies widely by ward, from 75% in Ward 6A to 16% in Ward 3A. Ward 3B is near the bottom with 24% coverage in 2021. Tree canopy in 3B is declining - from 2011 to 2021, Ward 3B lost 6 acres of trees. \
\
The development proposed for 8 View Ave removes 29 significant trees, with diameters from 20\'94 to 47\'94, and untold numbers of non-significant trees with diameter less than 20\'94. This will lead to an overall loss of more than one acre of tree canopy. This is twice the size the lot near Walgreens that was recently cleared by Eversource, and a significant loss of canopy coverage.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Of the 777 caliper inches of significant trees to be removed, only 115\'94 - one seventh - will be replaced on site. 19 of the replacement trees, and one-third of the replacement caliper - are low-growing under-wire trees - serviceberry, hornbeam and dogwood - that will never reach the size of the trees removed. The other trees will take decades to near the size of the trees they are replacing, if they are lucky enough to last that long. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 These trees have significant benefits for temperature, rainfall mitigation and carbon dioxide storage.\
\
Ward 3B is one of the hottest wards in the City. It includes the east side of King Street, lined with parking lots and few trees, and neighborhoods with limited tree canopy. Near noon on July 2, when temperatures were soaring all over the City, the average surface temperature in Ward 3B was over 100 degrees. Some parts of King Street reached as high as 110\'b0. In contrast, the temperature in the woods that this project would impact was in the mid-80s. \
\
If left undisturbed, the 29 significant trees on this site will intercept 55,344 gallons of rainfall and help avoid 2,209 gallons of stormwater runoff. They will reduce atmospheric carbon dioxide by 4,729 pound per year, adding to the nearly 145 tons of carbon they have already stored.\
\
The trees on this site cannot be replaced. They provide significant benefits to the neighborhood. They are part of one of the few woodlands in the downtown area. They should be preserved and protected, not cut down.}