{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2758
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13640\viewh11440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Carla Cosenzi - comments to the joint meeting of the Planning Board and City Council Legislative Matters Committee 4/11l2024\
Recorded from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q0HhDN8mHlA with OBS, transcribed by MacWhisper\
\
My name is Carla Cosenzi. I am a resident of Leeds. I'm also the owner of this property. You might recognize me from dropping off lunch at the police station or the fire department from handing out scholarships at the local high schools. Or maybe you've seen me riding my bike on the bike path with my children because that's where we often frequent from our home. \
\
I love this city. I'm raising my family here. I live here. I work here. I'm very, very invested in this city. And this piece of property is important to me as it is to everybody else. But in fairness, this piece of property, this vacant piece of property is our gateway to our city right now. And it's been sitting vacant for a very long time. And everybody's had an opportunity to invest in it. And no one did. And I did. I invested actually over $5 million in this piece of property after it sat vacant for over 10 years. The people who work for me, we eat locally. Every single day, we buy lunch from a local restaurant, wild roots, nourish the Thai place, which we actually eat at today. Every day we go out and support a local business. I shop local. I don't go on Amazon to buy a baby gift for somebody. I go to the little boutique inside Thorne\'92s Market. When I take my daughter out, I shop local. So do my employees. I employ over 170 people in this community. I bring people in when they buy a car, they go out to dinner in Northampton. When they're waiting for their car to be serviced, we're the ones who shuttle them to downtown Northampton. Our dealerships. \
\
I think that at this point, it's very imperative as a community that we place confidence in the planning board. By doing so, we uphold the integrity of the planning board process and respect the expertise of these board members who dedicate their time to making informed decisions. If we were to second guess and change these decisions every single time there was a disagreement, we would set a really dangerous precedent. It would undermine the authority of the planning board and erode the trust in the planning board process, ultimately leading to an inconsistency and uncertainty in our city's development. \
\
The planning board has established a meticulous design criteria, which I know very well because I've been working with Carolyn on a design for and let's just, everybody's curious about what it is for a Volvo dealership, which by the way is going 100% electric. And we, in that design, I love the bike path. We designed to the bike path, so it's welcoming for people to be able to use it, providing water, providing air, providing picnic tables off the bike path, solar panels, charging stations. And I promise you, it does not look like a Volvo dealership. It doesn't look like a dealership at all. It actually looks like a storefront. And it doesn't take up the whole lot. It's very small compared to the size of the lot. So what I'm asking is for you to uphold the zoning that you already have in place and give us an opportunity to present to you what a dealership could look like in this zoning. Just give us a chance. We just want to show it to you. And if it doesn't work, we're happy to look at other options. And we've also told Carolyn, we're also happy to partner on other options. We've talked to plenty of people that have had other interests in it, but it's a very expensive piece of property that we paid for. And it's not affordable to a lot of people. So if I can't build what I need to build on it, how long is it going to sit vacant in the gateway? \
\
I really appreciate your time. I was nervous about getting up and speaking and hesitant about coming to do so, but I thought it was really important that the people here understand that it's not just a car dealership. It's a person, it's a family. It's 170 people who depend on me to be able to feed their families. So thank you very much. I appreciate your time and letting me speak tonight.}